# REATAURANT GUEST DASHBOARD
This is an Admin dashboard for the web platform that is part of the full ['Restaurant Guest Software System'](https://github.com/users/RonnieLutaro/projects/5). The ['Restaurant Guest Software System'](https://github.com/users/RonnieLutaro/projects/5) is a name that was originally given to this system as part of the naming process for a project title. Traditionally, this kind of system would be referred to as a Restaurant Operations Management System. 

## INSPIRATION AND PROBLEM STATEMENT
Small businesses in Uganda are faced with customer management challenges that lead to business failure as stated in a research that was carried out by Kazooba (Kazooba, 2006).
Research was conducted on 133 small business enterprises including **restaurants**, bars, hotels, and others, it turns out that most of the small businesses in Uganda fail due to a number of factors that result from management problems, inadequate control of inventory, delays in processing applications among others (Kazooba, 2006). The Idea to develop an innovative solution that solves the challenge of small Restaurant business failure gave birth to the ['Restaurant Guest Sotware System'](https://github.com/users/RonnieLutaro/projects/5).

## IMPACT OF MY SOLUTION
Currently, most of my research has been narrowed down to 'Bobics Restaurant' as my case study, a small business restaurant in Mukono town, Uganda. The restaurant is located just a few meters away from a major University, Uganda Christian University. Based on my research, this restaurant's biggest customer segment are the students of Uganda Christian University. Most of the University Students are youth and possess mobile smartphones purposely to keep in close communication with their classmates, relatives, access classroom material from lecturers over platforms like Email, WhatsApp, University ELearning System, among many others. 
For many people, smartphones have become an extension of themselves. Now running on over 2 billion monthly-active devices, Android is the most common smartphone operating system in use world-wide, with users installing an average of 50 apps each, resulting in over 94 billion apps downloaded from the Play app store in 2017 alone according to Reto Meier and Ian Lake in the book Professional Android.
Ubiquitous and indispensable, smartphones are so advanced and personal that studies have shown people become anxious if they misplace their device, lose connectivity, or run low on battery.
According to a survey carried out by ZDNet, 5.7 hours is the average time spent by millennials on phones each day, while baby boomers devote 5 hours to smartphone use. However 13% of millennial and 5% of boomers say that they spend over 12 hours every day on their phones. 

The main problem faced at Bobics restaurant is the inefficient and insufficient work force to serve a large number of customers, especially during peak hours. Increasing the workforce just to solve peak hour problem, is not economical as it decreases the total profitability of the restaurant. The current system at Bobics restaurant is paper based. Papers are used in the restaurant for displaying the traditional menu cards, writing down the orders of customers, storing the records of customers. Customers make long queues before placing their orders as the waiter records customer orders using the traditional pen and paper. The customers then must wait until their order is ready and is then delivered. This process takes up a lot of time, human effort and is also prone to human error. The problem with paper-based systems are that papers can get easily be damaged by stain marks; they can be lost due to fire or accidents or can get lost in general. Hence, time and money are wasted. As traditional menu cards are paper based, any changes that need to be made in the menu will require reprinting of the entire menu card, leading to wastage. For small changes, reprinting the entire menu card is costly since the changes are not dynamic. It is inefficient to access a particular record from the stack of papers. This system is time consuming. One must call a waiter several times till he notices it and wait for him to arrive at their table to take their order. Also, the waiter can misinterpret the customer’s order since he is writing the order on paper, and the case of serving a wrong dish is possible. Wrong order processing due to the human mistake will cause wastage of food and increase the operating budget. For placing any orders customers must visit restaurants to know about food items and then place order and pay. While placing an order over the phone, customer lacks the physical copy of the menu item, lack of visual confirmation that the order was placed correctly. In the existing system, time and manual work is required. 

With all this information put into consideration, a software system solution that capitalized on mobile smartphone usage by the restaurant's biggest customer segment was accounted for as the best canditate.
The ['Restaurant Guest Dashboard'](https://github.com/users/RonnieLutaro/projects/5) will enable Bobics Restaurant's Admins and Staff members to have access to a web platform where they can easily manage their customer needs remotely by being able to Create, Read, Update, Delete menu items and process customer oders. This will enable the ['Restaurant Guest Mobile Application'](https://github.com/RonnieLutaro/restaurant-guest-android) users receive real time menu and order status updates. The restaurant's customers will interact with the [system](https://github.com/users/RonnieLutaro/projects/5) through the ['Restaurant Guest Mobile Application'](https://github.com/RonnieLutaro/restaurant-guest-android) on their android smartphones to be able to access their favorite restaurant's available menu items, place their oders and have them processed through the ['Restaurant Guest Mobile Application'](https://github.com/RonnieLutaro/restaurant-guest-android). The customers can either decide to takeaway or have their order home delivered based on their preference and adress that is for the most part student Hostels located around or near Uganda Christian University.  




